Vintage Soul
This is not a camera, it's a brick. After I opened the box, I found half a brick. I can’t believe it. A clean brick. I try to ask why a brick, not a Polaroid camera, but the seller is off the grid. I met him on an online secondhand store. He said he'd sell a camera, good as new, half the price and that he’d throw in ten packs of film too.

I clench the brick. Try shaking it. I take the brick and set out from home. I'm not sure yet whether I should go to the police office or to the invoiced address.

Dimly, the darkness spreads. It's a normal evening. It's a day I've lived over and over, hundreds of times and hundreds more. This is ridiculous. Rage rising out of control, but this is the ten thousandth scam case. All the same. Petty shams are the life. One time, trading donkey leather for flour, I got in a fight and nearly died, stabbed by a knife. And that other time, I got a couple gold coins but didn’t send the papyrus.

I was the one who laid the bricks for that church. A slave who used to bake bricks in Egypt, I probably died when a pile of bricks collapsed on me. Who knows who I might have been? A merchant tortured at a cogwheel for hustling, a sacrifice thrown down the Congo river, a laborer who drew caricatures with charcoal beside a cathedral atop a hill, a whore who wore leaves on her genitals, lying on a grass field, waiting for passersby.

My soul is secondhand. Like a red sweater from a collection box, it’s a soul whose elbows are worn out, again and again. It's a memory someone shipped but forgot to seal. It's dust, suddenly surging up from the sea or rolling down a volcano.

Sometimes I think of a marvelous phrase for the first time, but the phrase is a sentence I already carved into a stone when I grew bored baking bricks in the desert. When I go somewhere for the first time, I feel like I’ve lived there before. I have no first times, but every moment is a surprise like a first time for me.

I know why you left. I know the difference between sorrow and sadness. I know why that person in the corner stares as he passes. I’ve been through the same thing thousands of times. Even in this situation, when the brick comes to me, I lost my interest to rage.
But my memory falls short of absent-mindedness. I am doubtful. I made the payment in advance before I received the camera. Again, I trusted man. Fortunately, my soul is like a bug that only crawls out after the pesticide is sprayed. So, as if my soul doesn’t exist, I will love someone again.